Qt Evaluation Agreement Version 2024-08

1. Customer must read and accept this Agreement in order to use Licensed
   Software provided on an evaluation basis. If Customer does not agree to all
   terms of this Agreement, Customer should not accept this Agreement. Customer
   agrees that Customer has had sufficient opportunity to review this Agreement,
   understand its contents, and seek independent legal advice regarding this
   Agreement.

1.1. Unless otherwise provided in a signed or accepted agreement between
Customer (as defined below) and The Qt Company Oy located at Miestentie 7, 02150
Espoo, Finland (“The Qt Company”), this Qt Evaluation Agreement (“Agreement”)
governs Customer’s use and evaluation of the Licensed Software (as defined
below) provided to Customer for evaluation purposes. The parties above are
hereinafter individually referred to as a “Party” and collectively as the
“Parties”.

2. DEFINITIONS

2.1. “Customer” shall mean the entity agreeing to this Agreement (whether
through online acceptance of this Agreement or signature below). By entering
into this Agreement, Customer agrees that the entity which Customer represents
agrees to be bound by this Agreement.

2.2.  “Customer’s Records” shall mean books and records that contain information
bearing on Customer’s compliance with the Agreement and Customer’s use of Qt
Community Edition, and/or the payments due to The Qt Company under the
Agreement. 

2.3. ”Designated User(s)” shall mean the employee(s) of Customer utilizing the
Licensed Software.

2.4. “Development Platforms” shall mean the specified host operating system(s)
on which Licensed Software can be used under the Development License.

2.5. “Evaluation License Term” shall mean a time period specified in the License
Certificate for the Customer to use the relevant Licensed Software for
evaluation purposes according to Section 4 of this Agreement.

2.6. “Intellectual Property Rights” shall mean patents (including utility
models), design patents, and designs (whether or not capable of registration),
chip topography rights and other like protection, copyrights, trademarks,
service marks, trade names, logos or other words or symbols and any other form
of statutory protection of any kind and applications for any of the foregoing as
well as any trade secrets.

2.7. “Licensed Software” shall mean The Qt Company’s commercial software product
which is licensed for use by Customer under this Agreement for evaluation
purposes. The Qt Company may in the course of its development activities, at its
free and absolute discretion and without any obligation to send or publish any
notifications to Customer or in general, make changes, additions or deletions in
the components and functionalities of the Licensed Software, provided that no
such changes, additions or deletions will affect the already released version of
the Licensed Software, but only upcoming version(s). Licensed Software is
commercial computer software, developed at private expense and offered to the
public under standard commercial terms. Licensed Software does not include Third
Party Software or Qt Community Edition.

2.8. “Permitted Software” shall mean third party products that are generally
available to the public, which may include parts of Qt Community Edition or be
developed using Qt Community Edition.

2.9. “Professional Services” shall mean The Qt Company’s professional-,
consulting-, training- and/or project services delivered to Customer under this
Agreement, in the event that The Qt Company offers Customer an evaluation
workshop. Any such Professional Services are subject to the terms of the
Evaluation Workshop Appendix attached hereto.

2.10. “Prohibited Combination” shall mean any effort to use, combine,
incorporate, link or integrate Licensed Software with any software created with
or incorporating Qt Community Edition, or use Licensed Software for creation of
any such software.

2.11. “License Information” shall mean information generated by The Qt Company
for each Designated User respectively upon their download of the Licensed
Software, which will be available under the respective Designated User’s Qt
Account at account.qt.io (e.g., License Certificates). License Information will
specify relevant information pertaining to the Licensed Software used.

2.12. “Qt Community Edition” shall mean the open source version of Qt Software
available under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1
or later (“LGPL”) or the GNU General Public License, version 2.0 or later
(“GPL”). For clarity, Qt Community Edition shall not be provided, governed or
used under this Appendix.

2.13.  “Qt Software” shall mean the development and design software of The Qt
Company, which The Qt Company makes available under commercial and/or open
source licenses as either the “Licensed Software” or the “Qt Community Edition”.

2.14. “Third Party Software" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 of
this Agreement. 

3. OWNERSHIP OF THE QT COMPANY

3.1. The Licensed Software is protected by copyright laws and international
copyright treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties.
The Licensed Software is licensed, not sold. All of The Qt Company's
Intellectual Property Rights are and shall remain the exclusive property of The
Qt Company or its respective licensors . No rights to The Qt Company’s
Intellectual Property Rights are assigned or granted to Customer under this
Appendix, except when and to the extent expressly specified herein.

4. LICENSES GRANTED

4.1. Evaluation License

4.1.1. Subject to the terms of this Appendix, The Qt Company grants to Customer
a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-transferable license, valid for the Evaluation
License Term to use the relevant Licensed Software product solely for Customer’s
internal use to evaluate and determine whether the Licensed Software meets
Customer's business requirements, specifically excluding any commercial use of
the Licensed Software or any derived work thereof.

4.1.2. Right to distribute Licensed Software or use the Licensed Software for
any purposes other than for Customer’s internal evaluation pursuant to above
evaluation license grant is expressly prohibited. 

4.1.3. Upon the expiry of the Evaluation License Term, Customer must either
discontinue use of the relevant Licensed Software or acquire a commercial
License for any such further use of Licensed Software.

4.2. Further Requirements

4.2.1. The licenses granted in this Agreement are conditional and subject to
Customer's compliance with the following terms: 

Customer shall not remove or alter any copyright, trademark or other proprietary
rights notice(s) contained in any portion of the Licensed Software; Customer
shall not use Licensed Software in any manner or for any purpose that infringes,
misappropriates or otherwise violates any Intellectual Property Right or right
of any third party, or that violates any applicable law; Customer shall not, and
shall not permit any third party (including any Customer affiliate or
contractor) to, use Licensed Software in any Prohibited Combination, unless
Customer has received specific advance written permission from The Qt Company to
do so. Absent such written permission, any and all distribution by Customer
during the term of the Agreement of a hardware device or product: a) which
incorporates or integrates any part of Licensed Software or Qt Community
Edition; or b) where substantial functionality is provided by software built
with Licensed Software or Qt Community Edition or otherwise depends on Licensed
Software or Qt Community Edition, shall be considered to be commercial Device
distribution and shall be dependent on Customer’s compliance with Qt’s
commercial agreements (including but not limited to the obligation to pay
applicable license fees for such distribution). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Customer is entitled to use and combine Licensed Software with Permitted
Software. 

4.2.2. All fees under this Agreement are non-cancellable and non-refundable.     

5. THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE. The Licensed Software may provide links or access to
   third party libraries or code (collectively "Third Party Software") to
   implement various functions. Third Party Software does not, however, comprise
   part of the Licensed Software, but is provided to Customer complimentary and
   use thereof is discretionary for Customer. Third Party Software will be
   listed in the ".../src/3rdparty" source tree delivered with the Licensed
   Software or documented in the Licensed Software, as such may be amended from
   time to time. Customer acknowledges that use or distribution of Third Party
   Software is in all respects subject to applicable license terms of applicable
   third party right holders.

6. LIMITED WARRANTY AND WARRANTY DISCLAIMER. The Qt Company hereby represents
   and warrants that: it has the power and authority to grant the rights and
   licenses granted to Customer under this Agreement. Except to the extent set
   forth above, the Services are delivered to Customer "as is" and to the
   maximum extent permitted by applicable law, exclusive of other warranties,
   whether express, implied, or otherwise.  

7. CONFIDENTIALITY

7.1. The Parties shall keep confidential and shall not use or disclose to any
unauthorized third parties, any Confidential Information received from the other
Party or otherwise learned in connection with the Agreement or the performance
of the Agreement, without the prior written consent of the other Party.
Confidential Information shall mean information that is designated as
confidential or that would be reasonably understood to be confidential given the
circumstances of disclosure and the nature of the information. The Parties shall
not use Confidential Information received from the other Party for any other
purposes than the performance of the Agreement or the fulfilment of their rights
and obligations hereunder. 

7.2. Each Party shall limit access the other Party’s Confidential Information
only to those of its employees, Affiliates or financial or legal advisors who
need access to the Confidential Information for the proper performance of the
Party’s rights and obligations under the Agreement. Each Party shall ensure that
the persons receiving Confidential Information of the other Party are bound by
confidentiality obligations not less restrictive than those stipulated
herein. Each Party shall protect the confidentiality of the other Party’s
Confidential Information with at least the same degree of security as it
exercises to its own confidential information, but no less than a standard of
reasonable care.

7.3. The confidentiality obligation stipulated herein shall not be applied to
material and information which: (i) has become generally available or otherwise
public; (ii) becomes generally available or otherwise public due to a reason
other than the negligence or omission of the recipient or its personnel or other
actions in violation of agreements between the parties or  applicable
legislation; (iii) the Party has lawfully received from a third party without
any obligation of confidentiality; (iv) was lawfully in the possession of the
receiving Party prior to receipt of the same from the other Party without any
obligation of confidentiality related thereto; (v) a Party has developed
independently without using material or information received from the other
Party; or (vi) a Party must disclose pursuant to law, decree or other order
issued by competent regulatory or governmental body or other public authority or
a judicial order, in which case the Party shall, to the extent permitted by
applicable law, inform the other Party in writing of the disclosure of
information prior to such disclosure. 

7.4. Each Party shall, upon request of the other Party at any time, including
upon termination, cancellation or expiry of the Agreement, promptly destroy or
deliver to the other Party any and all Confidential Information of the other
Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Party may retain a copy of the
Confidential Information in a secure location, if and solely to the extent
required to comply with applicable laws or regulations. Any Confidential
Information stored in electronic back-up form shall be rendered inaccessible and
destroyed in accordance with standard back-up procedures. 

8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. EXCEPT FOR (I) CASES OF GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR
   INTENTIONAL MISCONDUCT, (II) A BREACH OR VIOLATION OF THE OTHER PARTY’S
   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, OR (III) WHERE REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN
   NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR ANY LOST
   PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA, LOSS OF BUSINESS OR GOODWILL OR ANY OTHER INDIRECT,
   SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE COST, DAMAGES OR EXPENSE OF
   ANY KIND, HOWSOEVER ARISING UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT AND
   EXCEPT IN CASES OF (I), (II), OR (III), IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY’S
   TOTAL AGGREGATE LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED TEN THOUSAND (10,000)
   EUROS.

9. TERM AND TERMINATION

9.1.  This Agreement shall enter into force upon acceptance of this Agreement by
Customer and confirmation of evaluation by The Qt Company.

9.2. This Agreement shall remain in force until the expiration of the Evaluation
License Term. In addition, The Qt Company may terminate this Agreement
immediately if The Qt Company has a reason to believe that Customer has breached
the terms of this Agreement.

9.3. Upon expiry or termination of the Agreement, (a) Customer shall cease using
the relevant Licensed Software; and (b) Customer shall destroy or return to The
Qt Company all copies of the respective Licensed Software and all related
materials and will, upon request, certify the same by Customer’s duly authorized
officer to The Qt Company upon its request.

10. GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION. This Agreement shall be construed and
    interpreted in accordance with the laws of Finland, excluding its choice of
    law provisions. All disputes arising out of or in connection with this
    Agreement shall be finally settled in accordance with the laws of Finland,
    excluding its choice of law provisions, in the courts of Helsinki, Finland.
    This Section shall not preclude parties from seeking provisional remedies in
    aid of arbitration from a court of appropriate jurisdiction. 

11. RECORD-KEEPING AND REPORTING OBLIGATIONS; AUDIT RIGHTS

11.1. Customer’s Record-keeping

11.1.1.Customer shall at all times during the term of the Agreement or validity
of any of the licenses hereunder, whichever is later, and for a period of two
(2) years thereafter, maintain Customer’s Records in an accurate and up-to-date
form. Customer’s Records shall be adequate to reasonably enable The Qt Company
to determine Customer’s compliance with the provisions of the Agreement. The
records shall conform to general good accounting practices.

11.1.2. Customer shall, within thirty (30) days from receiving The Qt Company’s
request to that effect, deliver to The Qt Company a report based on Customer’s
Records, such report to contain information, in sufficient detail, on: (i)
number and identity of users working with Licensed Software or Qt Community
Edition, (ii) Customer’s use of Qt Community Edition (e.g., to ensure no
Prohibited Combination occurs); and (iii) any other information pertaining to
Customer’s compliance with the terms of the Agreement (e.g. information on
products and/or projects), as The Qt Company may reasonably require from time to
time.

11.2. The Qt Company’s Audit Rights

11.2.1. The Qt Company or an independent auditor acting on behalf of The Qt
Company may, upon at least thirty (30) days’ prior written notice and at The Qt
Company expense, audit Customer with respect to Customer’s use of the Licensed
Software (including any potential Prohibited Combination), but not more
frequently than once per calendar year. Such audit may be conducted by mail,
electronic means or through an in-person visit to Customer’s place of business.
Any possible in-person audit shall be conducted during regular business hours at
Customer's facilities, shall not unreasonably interfere with Customer's business
activities and shall be limited in scope to verify Customer’s compliance with
the terms of the Agreement. The Qt Company or its independent auditor shall be
entitled to inspect Customer’s Records and conduct necessary interviews of
Customer’s relevant employees and Contractors. All Customer’s Records and use
thereof shall be subject to the obligation of confidentiality under the
Agreement. 

11.2.2. If an audit reveals that Customer is using the Licensed Software in an
unauthorized manner, Customer shall pay to The Qt Company any amounts owed for
such unauthorized use within thirty (30) days from receipt of the corresponding
invoice from The Qt Company.

12. MISCELLANOUS 

12.1. Any terms and conditions that by their nature or otherwise reasonably
should survive termination of this Agreement shall so be deemed to survive
(e.g., Sections 2,3,4,5,6, 7, 9, 10). This Agreement constitute the complete
agreement between the Parties, and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous
discussions, representations, and proposals, written or oral, with respect to
the subject matters discussed herein. No modification of this Agreement shall be
effective unless contained in a writing executed by an authorized representative
of each Party. No standard terms and conditions or provisions of any Customer
purchase order or other ordering form that Customer may use in connection with
the acquisition of services will modify or affect this Agreement, the parties
agree that any such terms and conditions are void with no legal effect. Neither
Party shall be liable to the other for any delay or non-performance of its
obligations hereunder in the event and to the extent that such delay or
non-performance is due to an event of act of God, terrorist attack or other
similar unforeseeable catastrophic event that prevents either Party for
fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement. If such an event results in a
delay or nonperformance for a period of three (3) months or longer, then either
Party shall have the right to terminate the Agreement with immediate effect
without any liability other than previously incurred payment obligations. If any
provision of this Agreement shall be adjudged by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision shall be limited or
eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement shall
otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable.

12.2. No Assignment. Customer shall not be entitled to assign or transfer all or
any of its rights, benefits and obligations under this Agreement. The Qt Company
shall be entitled to freely assign or transfer any of its rights, benefits or
obligations under this Agreement.

12.3. Subcontractors. The Qt Company may utilize subcontractors in the
performance under this Agreement, provided that The Qt Company remains
responsible for the performance and compliance with this Agreement, as well as
ensuring that subcontractors are required to abide by relevant restrictions
(e.g., confidentiality) set forth in this Agreement.

12.4. Feedback. Customer agrees that, from time to time, The Qt Company, may
request feedback from Customer regarding the Licensed Software (“Feedback”).
Customer may choose to provide Feedback and agrees that The Qt Company may
freely use, copy, disclose, and exploit any Feedback. No Feedback will be
considered Customer Confidential Information unless explicitly agreed otherwise
between the Parties.

12.5. Evaluation Information. Customer agrees and acknowledges that information
regarding use of Qt Software will be handled in accordance with The Qt Company’s
Privacy Policy, available at https://www.qt.io/terms-conditions/privacy-policy.

12.6. Export Control. Customer acknowledges that the Licensed Software, or
portions thereof, may be subject to export control restrictions under the
applicable laws of respective countries. Customer shall fully comply with all
applicable export license restrictions and requirements, economic sanctions
restrictions, as well as with all laws and regulations relating thereto, and
shall procure all necessary governmental authorizations, including without
limitation, all necessary licenses, approvals, permissions, or consents, where
necessary.

Appendix 1: Evaluation Workshop Terms
1. This Appendix 1: Evaluation Workshop Terms applies to Evaluation Workshops
   provided by The Qt Company to Customer. Evaluation Workshops (if applicable
   and agreed between the parties) are further detailed in Qt documentation
   issued to Customer (e.g., Qt quote and/or Workshop agenda materials).

2. Rights. All rights copyrights, trademarks, patents, and other intellectual
   property rights relating to all materials and documents (hereinafter
   “Deliverables”) pertaining to the Evaluation Workshop shall vest with The Qt
   Company. Customer is allowed to use Deliverables solely for Customer’s
   internal business purposes of evaluation and not to show, display or
   distribute Deliverables to any third party.

2.1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all rights to Background IP shall remain and
be exclusively vested with the respective Party or relevant third party
rights-holder. Customer grants The Qt Company the right to use Customer’s
Background IP solely for the purpose of performing the Evaluation Workshop and
delivery of the Deliverables. “Background IP” shall mean any techniques,
methods, ideas, concepts, programs or other technology, including all
copyrights, trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights therein
of a Party or a third party that has been generated prior to or outside the
scope of the Evaluation Workshop.

2.2. To the extent that the Evaluation Workshop includes and/or involves the use
and optimization of The Qt Company’s Background IP: (i) Customer’s right to use
such Background IP is granted and governed by the Agreement, and (ii) Customer
is entitled to use any Background IP solely for its internal use to assess the
Evaluation Workshop, and shall not distribute any Background IP of The Qt
Company to any third parties in any form.

3. Payment. If the Evaluation Workshop is provided on a paid basis, the
   following terms apply:

The fee for the Evaluation Workshop is set forth in the corresponding Qt quote.
All payment obligations are non-cancellable, and all fees and charges are
non-refundable. Value added tax shall be added to the prices in accordance with
the then current applicable legislation. Customer shall be invoiced the amount
of Evaluation Workshop fee prior to the occurrence of Evaluation Workshop. If
travel expenses are applicable, the actual travel expenses of The Qt Company
shall be invoiced after the Evaluation Workshop, and such expenses are not
included in the Evaluation Workshop fee. Any travel arrangements shall be agreed
separately in writing and are subject to approval by Customer. The term of
payment is thirty (30) days net from the date of invoice. A late payment charge
of the lower of (a) one percent per month; or (b) the highest interest rate
allowed by applicable law, shall be charged on any unpaid balances that remain
past due. If, at Customer’s request, the Evaluation Workshop is to be performed
outside The Qt Company’s normal business hours, The Qt Company shall be entitled
to charge additional charges pursuant to The Qt Company’s then-current price
list.

4. Rescheduling Of Evaluation Workshop. Should Customer, due to documented
   business reasons, need to reschedule the workshop, Customer must contact The
   Qt Company at least thirty (30) days prior to the scheduled Evaluation
   Workshop dates and any rescheduling must be mutually agreed by the parties in
   writing. Should The Qt Company personnel incur sudden illness, injury, or
   other unforeseen similar Evaluation Workshops, The Qt Company will use best
   efforts to replace the personnel as soon as possible. In such an Evaluation
   Workshop, he Qt Company has the right to post-pone Evaluation Workshop to a
   later date, to be jointly agreed by the Parties.

5. Delivery. Evaluation Workshops shall be performed by qualified personnel and
   with due diligence and foresight. Evaluation Workshops shall be performed
   during the normal business hours of The Qt Company under The Qt Company’s
   standard working methods and procedures, and legislation applicable to the
   Evaluation Workshops personnel performing the work.  

6. Warranty. The Qt Company hereby represents and warrants that: (i) Evaluation
   Workshops will be performed in a professional, workmanlike manner pursuant to
   these terms. Except to the extent set forth above, the Evaluation Workshops
   are delivered to Customer "as is" and to the maximum extent permitted by
   applicable law, exclusive of other warranties, whether express, implied, or
   otherwise. Customer’s sole and exclusive remedy and Supplier’s entire
   liability for breach of warranty shall be limited, at Supplier’s option, to
   correction, re-performance of the Evaluation Workshop or return of the
   applicable fees paid.  

7. Miscellaneous. The Parties are independent contractors, not agents, partners
   or joint venturers. Further, nothing in this Appendix is intended to create
   any employment relationship between Customer and The Qt-Company’s provided
   resources.
